[IMP] pos: Gift cards and eWallets (#19333)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/sales/point_of_sale/extra/pricing.rst

=======================

Gift cards and eWallets let customers pay for orders using a prepaid balance. Customers can buy gift
cards for themselves or others, while eWallets hold store credits linked to their account.

To activate gift cards and eWallets in Point of Sale, navigate to the :ref:`POS settings
<pos/use/settings>`, scroll down to the :guilabel:`Pricing` section, enable the
:guilabel:`Promotions, Coupons, Gift Card & Loyalty Program` setting, and click :guilabel:`Save`.
Once activated, click :icon:`oi-arrow-right` :guilabel:`Gift cards & eWallet` under the same setting
to configure the desired :ref:`gift cards <ewallet_gift/gift-cards>` and :ref:`eWallets
<ewallet_gift/ewallets>`.

.. tip::
   Alternatively, to configure and edit gift cards and eWallets, go to :menuselection:`Point of Sale
   --> Products --> Gift cards & eWallet`.

.. seealso::
   :doc:`../../sales/products_prices/ewallets_giftcards`

Gift cards
----------

.. important::
   You must configure at least one :ref:`gift card program <ewallet_gift/gift-cards>` before selling
   or redeeming gift cards.

To :ref:`sell <pos/use/sell>` a new gift card from the :ref:`POS register <pos/use/open-register>`,

> follow these steps:

Reviewer: Yes, I would repeat the same sentence for the crediting and eWallets parts/sections as well :slightly_smiling_face: 
Just in case people land on those parts/section (I think people rarely read through whole doc pages anymore :see_no_evil: )

#. Add the :ref:`gift card product <ewallet_gift/gift-cards>` to the order.
#. Select the appropriate gift card program in the popover, if multiple programs exist.
#. Adjust the price and quantity, if necessary.
#. Click :guilabel:`Payment` and complete the transaction.

   .. tip::
      After the payment is validated, Odoo automatically downloads a PDF with the gift card code to
      your browser. To select which report is generated, use the :guilabel:`Print Report` field on
      the :ref:`gift card program <ewallet_gift/gift-cards>`.

> #. Issue or print the generated code for the customer.

Reviewer: > I was trying to find a generic verb that would mean to give the gift card to the customer, because how they do that depends on the POS shop (I was thinking some might write it on a card, spell it out to the customer, etc.). Looking at [this](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/a-z-word-list-term-collections/i/issue), it seems it's not the best verb to use. Maybe _Provide_ could be better?

Are those common use cases (actually writing the code on a gift card or spelling it out to the customer)? 

> No, not through the POS. It's only possible from the backend

Could we mention this in a tip then? With (short) instructions)?

> #. Issue or print the generated code for the customer.

Author: > Are those common use cases (actually writing the code on a gift card or spelling it out to the customer)?

Indeed, I talked with the POS expert, and none of the other use cases made sense, so I just kept the `print`.

> Could we mention this in a tip then? With (short) instructions)?

Yes, good idea! I've added the tip, but I don't know if it's short enough. If we want to make it short, maybe we could link directly to the [sales doc](https://www.odoo.com/documentation/19.0/applications/sales/sales/products_prices/ewallets_giftcards.html), which mentions the `send` functionality at the bottom of the page.

To :ref:`sell <pos/use/sell>` a pre-printed physical gift card from the :ref:`POS register
<pos/use/open-register>`, follow these steps:

#. Add the :ref:`gift card product <ewallet_gift/gift-cards>` to the order.
#. Select the appropriate gift card program in the popover, if multiple programs exist.
#. Click :guilabel:`Sell physical gift card?`.
#. Enter or scan the physical gift card code in the popover.
#. Adjust the amount and expiration date, if necessary.
#. Click :guilabel:`Add Balance`.

   .. tip::
      If the gift card code already exists in Odoo, the amount and expiration date are automatically

>       filled in. Click :guilabel:`Add existing Gift Card` to attach it to the order.

Reviewer: Ok then I would keep that part:
```suggestion
      If the gift card code already exists in Odoo, click :guilabel:`Add existing Gift Card` to attach it to the order.
```

To redeem points for a reward, click the :icon:`oi-ellipsis-v` (:guilabel:`vertical ellipsis`) icon,
select :icon:`fa-star` :guilabel:`Reward`, and choose the desired item from the list.

.. _pos/pricing/giftcards_ewallet:

Gift cards & eWallet
====================

Gift cards and eWallets let customers pay for orders using a prepaid balance. Customers can buy gift
cards for themselves or others, while eWallets hold store credits linked to their account.

To activate gift cards and eWallets in Point of Sale, navigate to the :ref:`POS settings
<pos/use/settings>`, scroll down to the :guilabel:`Pricing` section, and enable the
:guilabel:`Promotions, Coupons, Gift Card & Loyalty Program`.

Once activated, go to :menuselection:`Point of Sale --> Products -->
Gift cards & eWallet` and configure the desired :ref:`gift cards <ewallet_gift/gift-cards>` and

> :ref:`eWallets <ewallet_gift/ewallets>`.

Reviewer 2: As soon as you activate it, you can just stay there and click --> Gift cards & eWallet, no need for the whole path

<img width="503" height="146" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4ca3b935-150e-48f2-a1fe-8fa7473ee9a1" />

You can add the path as a note if you want to mention it, though

Reviewer 3: I'd say a Tip, as an alternative to the path or the other way around, right?

.. seealso::
   :doc:`../../sales/products_prices/ewallets_giftcards`

Gift cards
----------

To apply a gift card during a transaction, follow these steps:

#. Click the :icon:`fa-ellipsis-v` (:guilabel:`vertical ellipsis`) icon.
#. Select :icon:`fa-barcode` :guilabel:`Enter Code`.
#. Enter or scan the code.

> #. Click :guilabel:`Apply`.

Reviewer 2: Don't forget to mention how to acquire a gift card from the POS (either a physical gift card if you have a printed one to associate with a specific amount, or a new gift card code)

<img width="1017" height="594" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/92830dc0-b81c-4b01-ad83-de3adb2842ee" />
If you don't click Sell Physical Gift Card and just proceed to payment, it generates a .pdf with the gift card 

<img width="770" height="684" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2b06c2ae-d1b5-4496-81a5-ef227a40b56b" />

.. note::
   A warning pop-up appears if the gift card was not previously purchased through the POS. To accept
   the gift card and continue, click :guilabel:`Ok`.

eWallet
-------

> To use an eWallet balance, follow these steps:

Reviewer 2: I'd say during a transaction like above or from the register

#. Click on :guilabel:`Customer`.
#. Select an existing :ref:`customer <pos/use/customers>` or create a new one.
#. Click the :icon:`fa-ellipsis-v` (:guilabel:`vertical ellipsis`) icon.

> #. Select :icon:`fa-credit-card` :guilabel:`eWallet Pay` to apply the available balance.

Reviewer 2: You won't be able to use an eWallet if none is created and credited. 
I'd start like for the gift card on how to credit a customer's eWallet from the POS first, then how to use the balance
